computer network--
when two or more computer joined together and they capable of shared info, they form a network

why do we need computer network?
.file sharing
.hardware sharing
.application sharing
.user communication
.reduced cost
.reliability

type of network--
   based on--
   .size
   .network topology
   .connection

   based on size--
   .PAN
   .LAN
   .MAN
   .WAN

   based on topology---
   physical way in which computer are interconnected---

   .Star--organization that require centalized data base or centalized processing facility
   .Bus--single cable run in the campus an deach node are linked along with communication line
   .tree--connect one star to another star network
   .ring--network cable pass one node to another untill node are connected in the loop
   .mesh--random connection of node using communication linked

   classifying network by component roles--

   .peer-to-peer network--each peer behave as client as well as server simultenous
   .server based network--server based network that control all peer and peer can act both as client and server
   .client based network--The client does some work by itself and asks the server for help when it needs more processing power.



   type of network communication--

   .unicast
   .broadcast
   .multipoint

   different type of network connectivity--

   1.Broadband = Fast Internet access at fixed location
   .Purpose = Connect users/organizations to the Internet efficiently
   .Use = Home, office, education, healthcare, research, cloud, etc.

  2.mobile internet--Mobile Internet provides wireless Internet access from different locations
   using cellular networks such as 4G and 5G.

  3.VPN--(virtual privatenetwork)--VPN creates a secure private connection over a public network, 
  commonly using tunneling techniques.
  Public Internet + Secure Tunnel = VPN 

  4. Dial-up network---Dial-up networks use analog modems and ordinary telephone lines to establish TCP/IP communication,
   while X.25 was an older packet-switched protocol used for long-distance networking.


   type of network link--

   wired technologies--
   
   .coaxial--is a type of copper cable used to carry electrical signals.
   .twisted pairs--Twisted-pair cable consists of pairs of copper wires twisted around each other
    A common Ethernet cable has 4 pairs = 8 copper wires.

   .optical fiber--Optical fiber is made mainly from glass (or sometimes plastic) and carries data as pulses of light.

   wireless technologies--

   .terestrial microwave
   .communication satellite
   .cellular network
   .radio & spread spectrum technologies
   

   Internet protocol address--IP Address----

   It is the unique numerical address of a device in a computer network that uses Internet Protocol for
communication.
• Allow you to pinpoint a particular device from the billions of devices on the Internet.

.Static--A fixed IP address that normally does not change
.Dynamic--A temporary IP address that is automatically assigned and may change.
.private--An IP address used for communication inside a local/private network.
.Public--An IP address used for communication over the Internet/outside the local network.

  Internet protocol version---
  .IPv4
  .IPv6

  internet protocol classes--
  .class A (1 to 126)
  .class B (128-191)
  .class C (192-223)
  .class D (224-239)
  .Class E (240-255)

  Domain Name--
  .Domain name is a way to identify and locate computers connected to internet
• No two organizations can have same domain name

Domain name system--

 DNS translates domain names to IP addresses so browsers can load Internet resources

   World Wide Web--

   web--It is the collection of linked documents or pages, stored on millions of computers and distributed
across the world.

basic term of www---

• Web Pages: A document or information resource that can be accessed through a web browser and displayed on a monitor or mobile
device.
• Web Sites: A set of related Web Pages linked through hypertexts links.
• Uniform Resource Location (URL): Unique address that identifies its location on the internet.
  
  web hosting---
  