Current trend of Cyber Security, Threats and Crime----------
----------------------------------------------------------------------

01- Cyber Crime, Threat and Risk
02- Classification of Cyber Crime
03- Cyber Criminal and its roles
05- How to prevent Cyber Attacks?
04- Cyber Security and its importance
06- How to Report Cyber Crime?

cyber crime--
any unlawful acts wherein the computer act as toolor either as target or both..

Global Cyber Trends : The Next Wave

recent studies reveal three  major findings--

1.Growing threat to national security-----
Web espionage becomes increasingly advanced, moving from
curiosity to well-funded and well-organized operations aimed
at not only financial, but also political or technical gain


2.Affecting individuals and industry because of growth of
sophistication of attack techniques

3.Emergence of a sophisticated market for software flaws --
That can be used to carry out espionage and attacks on Govt.
and Critical information infrastructure. Findings indicate a
blurred line between legal and illegal sales of software
vulnerabilities


NCRB Cyber Crime Record 2017--

1. India recorded 21,796 cyber crimes in 2017,
an increase of 77% from 2016.

2. Countrywide, 1.7 cyber crimes were
committed per one lakh population in 2017.

3. Over half the crimes were committed to gain
money by fraudulent means.

4. New crime heads such as cyber blackmailing,
cyber stalking, and dissemination of fake news
were introduced in the 2017 NCRB report.



Cyber Threats---
1.national level
2.organization level
3.individual level

What is at Risk?--

accounts/credentials--
.Email Account (Personal/Corporate)
• E-Commerce (Online Shopping,
Ticketing etc.
• Banking/Credit Card
• Intranet Portal
• System/Network/Domain
• Client Side Encryption Certificates

information disclosure---
• Official and Personal Documents
• Personal Pictures
• Messages/Chats
• Contact Lists
• Email Account Harvesting
• License Keys


Classification of Cyber Crime--
1.against Person
2.against property
3.against organization
4.against society at large

Classification of Cyber Crime--

cyberbullying
cyberstalking
ransomware
identity theft
IRS fraud


Types of Cyber Attacks--
DOS
phishing
harassment
hacking
salami attack
email spoofing


Web Based Attack Vectors--
injection
broken access control
sensitive data exposure
broken authentication
cross site scripting

Cyber Weapons---

viruses
worm
trojan horse
logic bomb

Cyber Criminals--
A cybercriminal is an individual who commits cybercrimes, where
he/she makes use of the computer either as a tool or as a target or as
both.

Cybercriminals use computers in three broad ways--
1.target
2.Weapons
3.accessory


Cyber Security---

Cyber security is the practice of protecting systems, networks, and
programs from digital attacks.

These attacks are usually aimed at accessing, changing, or destroying sensitive information, extorting
money from users; or interrupting normal business processes.

Roles of Cyber Criminals---
programmers
cashiers
hackers
leaders
it expert
tellers
distributors


How to Prevent Cyber Attack?

Use Strong Passwords: Use the different password and username combinations for different accounts and
resist the temptation to write them down.

Keep Your social media accounts private: Be sure that you keep your social networking profiles (Facebook,
Twitter, YouTube, etc.) private. Be sure to check your security settings.

Secure your Mobile Devices: Many people are not aware that their mobile devices are also vulnerable to
malicious software, such as computer viruses and hackers.

Protect your data: Protect your data by using encryption for your most sensitive files such financial records
and tax returns.

Protect your identity online: When it comes to protecting your identity online it is better to be too cautious. It
is critical that you be cautious when giving out personal ID such as your financial information on the Internet.

Keep your computer current with the latest patches and updates: One of the best ways to keep attackers
away from your computer is to apply patches and other software fixes when they become available.

Protect your computer with security software: Several types of security software are necessary for basic
online security. Security software essentials include firewall and antivirus programs


How to Report Cyber Crime in India?

1.The first step is to file a complaint at the cyber crime cell in a
police station of the city where the crime has taken place, or
where the device is located which was affected.

2.You can go to the police station of your state or send an mail
to the Police as they will forward your complaint to the Cyber
Cell or you can directly mail the complaint to cyber cell.

3.if the crime is against children or women, it can be directly
reported to CCPWC Forensic Lab, which is dedicated for
cyber crime protection against women and children in every
state.

4. One can also file a complaint using online portal such as
www.cybercrime.gov.in.
